IMPLEMENTATION:
    open page
    pause game
    wait for dom
    check if save exists
        yes -> load save
        no -> use initial values
            - create new day
            - new character * 2

    unpause game
    run timer from 6AM to 7PM
        - player choose actions
            - character inactive
            - returns at end of time
            - chance for failure based on danger
        - thirst and hunger increases
            - water and food consumed
            - chance for death
        - chance for random survivor to turn up
        - higher chance of losing survivor if out after 7
        - vary temperature
            - affects thirst, hunger, strength, skills
    pause game
    show end day screen
        - player chooses to move or stay
            stay -> create new day
            move -> create new environment

    create new day ->
        - select appropriate weather
        - calculate temperature range
        - modify water and food quantities in environment
        - advance danger

    create new environment ->
        - select random environment
        - create random day
        - move danger away
        - kill survivors left behind

    new character ->
        - random gender
        - generate name
        - random backstory
        - random age
        - random weight
        - calculate strength
        - calculate skills
        - calculate needs
        - set preferred temperature, environment, weather
        - random traits
        - modify skills, needs



DESIGN:
        12 hour day (6am to 6pm), hour passes every (10?) seconds
        actions take time to complete
        things come at night to take resources or survivors
        temperature based on time as well as location and weather
        more traits (including professions e.g. engineers/chefs, and diseases?)
        new resource for building
        events e.g. animal attacks, fighting raiders, resource stockpile found
        menus for start/pause/end game/location-select

    finding resources:
        finding resources takes time.
        find skill affects how well the survivor uses that time to find resources.
        higher skill results in more area searched.
        skill does not affect how much resource the survivor can carry.
        strength affects how much can be carried.
        if a survivor is carrying max resources they will not return early.
        if a survivor is out too long they may die (starve, dehydrate, attacked, lost)

    resources:
        the outpost has resources. these are what the survivors consume.
        the world has resources scattered around. they must be found.
        survivors can go out to find resources.
        their skill affects how successful they are.
        survivors must consume food and water to survive.
        resources deplete over time, forcing the survivors to move to a new area.
        priority affects which resources will be gathered.
        gathering a certain resources sets high priority for it (gathering water wont bring food).
        however the survivor might still find that resource and can eat/drink it if necessary.
        if seeking water and food is found all will be eaten (and vica versa for seeking food)
        if seeking water and water is found water will only be drunk if either carrying max water or dehydrated (same for food)
        general resource gathering can also be carried out (bring what is found)

    resource consumption:
        water: water is consumed when survivors are thirsty. survivors must slake their thirst periodically.
                dehydration is recorded in hours. survivors can survive varying amounts of time before dying.
                if a survivor finds water in the wild they will drink it if they are dehydrated.
                rate of dehydration depends on the temperature.
                typical time to death: 6-12 hours
        food: food is consumed once a day and when performing an action.
                as with water they can only survive a certain time without food.
                a penalty to strength is received if the survivor does not eat enough. the survivor will starve if they do.
                if a survivor finds food in the wild they will eat it if they are malnourished.
                not eat enough food.
                typical time to death: 2-3 days
        fuel: fuel is consumed when constructing items and when travelling. each survivor has a fuel requirement to move
                to a new area. if there is not enough fuel people will be left behind.

    temperature:
        temperature varies based on the time of day, the outpost location, and the weather.
        it affects how much water survivors need to drink and how effective their skills are.
        cold reduces their need for water and increases their searching skills.

    weather:
        weather affects temperature and the safety of making excursions.
        the more dangerous the weather the greater the chance of survivors being killed whilst searching.
        weather can also increase or decrease the amount of water available in an environment.

    danger:
        survivors will encounter danger in various forms;
            natural death by dehydration or malnutrition
            attacks from animals or people
                - can be prevented with sufficient strength
            weather phenomena
            mysterious danger/plot based danger
                - danger increases as time spent at one location increases
            being left behind
            getting lost
            infection?

    the world:
        the survivors are either pursuing a goal:
            some kind of sanctuary
            religious crusade
            escape from continent/planet
            inner peace
        or fleeing from something:
            warlord
            'wild hunt'/vengeance of nature
            miasma, causes wave of putrefaction, reduces water and food and increases danger
            wildfire

    survivor:
        detailed, complex attributes that have varying effects on gameplay;
            - age: affects strength and food consumption (older people/children are weaker, younger people eat more)
            - gender: affects strength and food consumption (women are weaker but dont eat as much)
            - weight: affects hunger (heavier people eat more)
                      affects dehydration tolerance (heavier people need more water)
            - dehydration tolerance: how long a survivor can go without drinking
            - starvation tolerance: how long a survivor can go without eating
            - thirst: how much a survivor needs to drink to be slaked
                this is how much a survivor needs to drink every day
                it is divided up into equal amounts for every hour e.g 3 litres over 12 hours = 0.25 l/hr
                the actual amount of water required is modified by the difference between the current temperature and the optimum
                //if a survivor cannot drink the required amount their dehydration level increases by 1hr
                //if a survivor can drink the required amount their dehydration level decreases by 1hr (max 0)
                the dehydration tolerance indicates how many litres of water debt the survivor can sustain
                if a survivor cannot drink the required amount their dehydration increases by the difference between the amount drunk and the amount required
                if a survivor can drink the required amount their dehydration stays the same
                if a survivor can drink more than the required amount they will reduce their dehydration level by the corresponding amount
                a survivor cannot drink more than their thirst plus any water debt from dehydration
                if the dehydration level reaches the tolerance level they die
                water is divided amongst survivors in the following order:
                    - highest dehydration with priority
                    - those with priority
                    - those with highest dehydration
                    - those without priority
            - hunger: how much a survivor needs to eat to be full
                same mechanics as thirst
            - traits: affects the behaviour of survivors, can be a boon or a curse
            - strength: affects how much can be carried and how effective in combat the survivor is
            - resource-find skills: affects how effectively survivors gather the different resources
            - preferred temperature, location, and weather: affects the modifiers of each variable
            - actions: what can be done this turn;
                gather food (priority food(0.75) water(0.25), fuel(0))
                gather water (priority water(0.75), food(0.25), fuel(0))
                gather fuel (priority water(0.1), food(0.1), fuel (0.8))
                gather all (priority water(0.35), food(0.35), fuel (0.3))
                build shelter (uses fuel to build)
                sleep (uses 1/2 as much food and water)
                trait-based actions
                    LIVEGIVER build water collector: gain water over time (uses fuel to build)
                    FIREMAKER build fire: increase temperature at camp (uses fuel to build)
                    MECHANIC build cooler: reduce temperature at camp (uses fuel to build)
                    MASON build well: increase water in environment (uses fuel to build)
                    FARMER herd chickens: gain food over time (no use)
                    BAITER lay bait: increase food in environment (uses food to build)
        distribution curve:
            if age <= ideal age: -0.0045(x-idealage)^2+1
               else            : -0.0001(x-idealage)^2+1

    survivor traits:
            OBESE: greater hunger and thirst, greater malnutrition tolerance, lower dehydration tolerance, high fuel requirement
            SURVIVOR: low strength, low hunger and thirst, high tolerance
            HUNTER: very high food skill
            DIVINER: very high water skill
            FRACTIONATOR: very high fuel skill
            SKINNY: reduced fuel requirements, low hunger, low strength
            WARRIOR: increased fuel requirements, high hunger, high strength
            DELVER: more likely to uncover stockpiles
            DOZY: uses 1/4 food and water when sleeping, low strength, increased risk to danger
            STRAIGHT THINKER: less affected by temperature modifiers
            WEAK-MINDED: more affected by temperature modifiers
            FORGETFUL: sometimes will return with nothing
            WEAKLING: cannot hunt, very low strength
            GREEDY: high food requirement
            SALTY: high water requirement
            UNSTOPPABLE: cannot be killed in combat
            IMMORTAL: very high tolerance
            ALCOHOLIC: cannot find water, reduced skills
            ICECUBE: likes low temperatures
            DESERT DEVIL: likes high temperatures
            FRAIL: actions take twice as long
            SICKLY: will die after some time
            CURSED: will die quickly
            MADDENED: may randomly kill other characters or self
            GRIEVING: will sometimes sleep entire day
            UNCONTROLLABLE: will perform random actions
            GILLED: likes wet climates
            SUCCULENT: likes dry climates
            CLIMBER: likes high altitudes
            MINER: likes low altitudes
            STORMCHASER: likes bad weather
            CLOUDWATCHER: likes overcast weather
            SANDRAT: likes clear weather
            LIVEGIVER build water collector: gain water over time (uses fuel to build)
            FIREMAKER build fire: increase temperature at camp (uses fuel to build)
            MECHANIC build cooler: reduce temperature at camp (uses fuel to build)
            MASON build well: increase water in environment (uses fuel to build)
            FARMER herd chickens: gain food over time (no use)
            BAITER lay bait: increase food in environment (uses food to build)

    environments:
        environments have a carrying capacity                                                       //don't like this
            if the carrying capacity is lower than the number of colonists, some will be lost
            however if the carrying capacity is greater, then colonists can be gained
        environments have a climate, which dictates the types of weather that typically occur
        there is a danger associated with each climate, though the cause of the danger may vary
        environments have varying quantities of fuel, water, and food available
        altitude level gives bonuses to certain traits, as does climate
        environments chosen from 3 classes;
            class A - good environments (oasis and mountains)
            class B - average environments (prairie, scrubland, oil sands, ravines)
            class C - bad environments (ruins, wasteland, salt flats)
        every time the survivors move to a new environment the difficulty changes
        the type of environment is chosen based on the difficulty (low difficulty = good environments)
        scenario:
            move to new area, difficulty rating changes to 0.4
            0.4 lies on boundary between class A and class B environments
            range of difficulty is from 0.25 to 0.55 (0.4 +/- 0.15)
            categories within this difficulty are A and B (15% chance A, 15% chance B)
            probability distribution of environments in A is 50%, and 25% in B
            multiply distribution within class by the chances of selecting that class to get
            25% chance environment from class A 12.5% chance environment from class B
            generate random number and select environment based on this value
        types;
            wasteland
            mountains
            ravines
            abandoned
            oasis
            marsh
            heath
            prairie

    weather:
        weathers are categorised by temperature (hot, med, cold), and conditions (wet, dry, storm)
        the temperature affects the range of day temperatures
        conditions gives bonuses to certain traits
        the weather can reduce or top up the water and food of environments
        weather can also have an associated danger level, again the causes can vary
        weather chosen based on environmental ratings;
            weather rating from 0 to 1, 0 being dry and 1 being wet, 0.5 would be mix wet and dry weather
            dry and wet severity rating from 0 to 1, 0 being least severe, 1 being most severe
        weather rating dictates the distribution of wet and dry weather in an environment
        severity rating dictates the types of weather in the environment
        types;
            drizzle
            rainy
            clear
            cloudy
            thunderstorm
            foggy
            sandstorm
            floods
            frost

